And is it possible to share a state from
lacy logan libraries to other libraries?
>> Yes.
>> My challenge is in some
projects in the past,
I've had the challenge to share a state.
And the challenge was because
one library was Lacey loaded.
So how I make sure that I share this
data across multiple libraries?
Is this core module for
example a good place to store the data?
In the core state module?
>> Yeah, so the question is if
you have lacy loaded modules then
sometimes data is not available
within those lacy loaded modules.
And so how do you make that available
to the rest of the application?
Is, for instance core state
a viable approach to that.
And I would say yes, I believe so,
that at some point you kind of have to
establish that there is
a canonical source of truth.
Ultimately, I believe the ultimate
source of truth is your
data layer in terms of
what's in the database.
And so what's interesting about that is
that Imagine you have someone running or
multiple people running
the same application and
they're manipulating data at the server.
Well, this is actually a real
problem is how do you deal with data
synchronization and
data transactions and still data.
That how do you handle the fact that
somebody could have changed data
at the server and you are actually
staring at an older version of it?
And which then could adversely affect your
decision making if you've ever tried to
buy a ticket online, and it's like
there's 12 tickets, just kidding,
there's no tickets,
which I've been burned.
Or if you've ever bought something
off of Amazon, and in my case,
my wife is in the other room,
also adding stuff to the cart and
then the single source of
truth is the Amazon database.
Now listen, whereas I wanted a book,
I ended up buying a book and a tractor and
a Christmas tree, because it was
in the cart and unbeknownst to me,
I purchased it.
And so
the reason why I'm making that analogy
is because you have to
find The lowest possible
abstraction that still covers
all interested parties.
And so, if you have a module that needs
to share data with another module,
then you have to go one abstraction
above that to put that there.
So ultimately, and so
NGRX allows for lacy loaded or for
you to load slices of state so
you can do it the store for
route or you can do it for feature.
So it allows you to add those
pieces in incrementally but
ultimately, I recommend
having a core state module or
library that is that abstraction that sits
just above all the interested parties.
Now, I should never quite said it like
that, but I think it makes a lot of sense.
Is that everything that we've been
doing since we got here this morning,
or from the beginning of
the workshop up is we've been just
incrementally abstracting complexity.
Away from really the component layer or
the point of contact,
which is, what is the user state and
we're moving it away.
To the point that I've
actually written versions of
Redux that exist in a note server,
that anybody who's
sharing that data now
they're sharing a single,
unified store across not only modules,
but across an application.
This is the entire premise of
Firebase is you're just moving in,
you're promoting that to just one
layer above all interested parties.
So to sum it up, the answer is yes.
[LAUGH]
>> Okay, thanks.
>> All right,
What other questions do we have?
This is only like probably one of the most
complicated pieces of development period.
Anybody?
>> I was looking like an online 16 action
that doesn't seem to be used anywhere.
>> The observation was in this
particular block of code on
line 16 it doesn't appear
that we're using action.
The reason being is because there's
no payload to go get the collection.
We're just saying go get it,
versus if we go down to create we
do need the payload off of that.
And so we're saying the action
is update widget and
we're pulling the widget
off the action item.
Does that make sense?
>> Yeah, so that payload is
trickling down from somewhere.
>> Yep.
So-
>> From the component?
>> Yes.
So let's walk through this real quick.
I'll just kind of step through this and
how this works.
So, in the widgets component,
We'll go, I'm going to save widget,
and there's nothing fancy about this.
This is a widget, it's either gonna be
a new widget or an existing widget.
And then from here, in the façade, yeah.
So in the façade, I'm saying does
this widget have an ID, yes or no?
And depending on that,
let's go with create.
So from here, I am saying widgets
actions create widget.
So this is just to be clear.
I'm referencing all of the actions.
So, if we go here, down here,
it's Create Widget.
So this is the actual what I
consider the trigger event.
So back to here.
Widgets.
So dispatch, which is calling the store so
this sorta dispatch,
I'm passing the action.
And what that is,
it's an action object for
create widget, and
I'm passing in an object with a widget so
it's just a generic object
with a widget property.
Then what this does is whenever
we create this is listening for
the create widget and the effect and
I say, Okay, good.
So it's called widget service create,
and it's passing that in.
And then once we've completed,
then it's calling create widget success,
and it's passing that
widget into who knows?
I mean, in a way, we don't know yet
because it's just dispatching this object
or returning it,
because the effect is like the middleware.
And then from here,
if we go to the widgets reducer,
then create widget success is taking your
application state the new widget and
it's just saying hey,
I want to add this to state.
That makes sense?
So from the component, it basically-
>> That's cool.
>> Cool so façade,
which then gets dispatched and
either gets picked up by the reducer or
an effect.
It performs some operation and
then let's say it goes into the effect
then it completes and then it dispatches
a new action with that a loop
that goes into the reducer
which that update state.
Which then now triggers that absorbable
strings that says hey, something happen,
update yourself.
So it's some head knots here,
this is good.
All right.
Any other questions?
>> A general question with the,
NGRX and stuff?
Basically when does it
not make sense to use it?
Like even on large-scale applications when
doesn't just kind of just has complexity?
>> So the question is when this
does not make sense to use NGRX?
I would say if you're doing
something very kind of temple
like a proof of concept,
then I may consider not using NGRX.
So for instance,
I'm just doing a quick proof of concept.
I probably would just use
a façade at the same time,
that everything that I've done for the
most part has been off of a command line.
So it's very quick if we took
everything that I've done,
just sort of the command line,
we can reduce a lot of this application
development into 20, 30 minutes.
In fact, all of the commands that I've
done at one point were in a single shell
script that just think about that.
So now, I would say when
somebody truly understands
how NGRX works,
I think it's just as efficient.
You're just changing things and
putting them in the appropriate place.
Where I do believe it
becomes slightly problematic
is when you're working with a team that
is not in a place to really grasp it.
And so I have worked with teams where they
are missing some fundamental concepts,
that makes wrapping their
mind around NGRX really hard.
And I think there's a certain arc
in a developers kind of journey
where they're kind of ready to start
thinking about state management.
There's other times where they're
not ready via they just are learning
how to program or
they've just got a lot of bad habits.
And so at that point, I would prioritize
the overall health of the team
over my enthusiasm for
NGRX proper state management.
I have a really hard time thinking
of a downside because a lot of the,
what people would call boilerplate
which I don't believe it is.
But a lot of those,
the ergonomics have been improved so
much from the command line
in the schematics that I
think even though the surface
area is a little bigger.
That you're solving a problem upfront
that you're not going to grow out of.
Versus if you start going on
the path of everything is a service
with a subject, that becomes
a larger problem down the road.
And all you're doing is you
are essentially distributing that pain,
you're not really
addressing the complexity,
you're only deferring it for
a while, which is totally fine.
If you know that's what you're
doing especially in a brownfield
project is that I may opt not
to integrate NGRX immediately.
Now, again you have Akita in
a couple of different libraries.
As long as you're doing proper state
management which is stay with me statement
or proper complexity, you're addressing
it properly which is state management,
control flow and code volume.
I'm somewhat ambivalent in terms
of how you actually do that.
I like NGRX but we can use mob x Akita,
whatever the team votes on cuz
it's all to the same end which is
we're writing great software to
put into production
>> Yep, make sense?
Kind of wonder because I remember
reading somewhere that more often
than not when you wonder if you need Redux
in your react project, you don't need it.
Because well some people think about
it like a spoiled brat I guess or?
>> Yeah, so the statement was if
you think that you need Redux for
your application, you probably don't.
I would say anything non trivial.
I would say this is a intrinsic immutable
fact, if you're building something that's
non trivial You need to take
state management seriously,
whatever library you
use to accomplish that.
I think we could have
a discussion around that.
But state management is, in my opinion,
the major contributor of complexity,
which is the hardest
thing about programming.